>> Erik Reinert: After you
set your requirements,
I do recommend some exploration.
Give yourself, like,
that's the fun part of the job, right?
Giving yourself an opportunity to play and
explore, researching of
testing of new technologies.
But can anyone guess why we do that after
setting the requirements [LAUGH] right?
>> Speaker 2: We can find
the right design and tools?
>> Erik Reinert: Exactly, yeah, and
I get this question all the time,
which is how do you pick
the right tools for the job?
Well, I define the job first.
[LAUGH] You know what I mean?
I sit down and I say, well, here's my
requirements, and then it becomes really
easy to throw out things or keep things,
that scope becomes a lot smaller.
So, set your requirements first and
then explore, right?
You'll avoid falling down rabbit holes,
you'll avoid wasting time, but
it still gives you an opportunity
to try new things if you want.
It's just a more structured
way of doing it.
>> Erik Reinert: Also new
methodologies and tools, right?
So we're talking about technologies and
stuff like that,
but we also wanna talk
about methodologies.
Maybe you want to readdress how inter
service communication works, right?
Maybe you want to readdress how a specific
thing is maintained or managed, right?
So it's not just about
exploring new technologies,
but it's also about
exploring new methodologies,
new approaches to things that could
improve other systems in the future.
A good example of that is going back to
the Kubernetes example
that I'm doing at my job,
we have to use ECS to deploy all
of our services at the moment.
And ECS is great, however,
it doesn't really provide us with
a lot of deployment options.
You can get like basic blue-green,
but canary deployments
are a little bit harder to do.
Say you wanna do user testing,
where like 50% of your audience goes to
one service versus 50% goes to another.
This was actually a massive argument
that we were able to win because we
know that on Kubernetes and
using the right system,
we can do that very easily,
like, very easily.
And that's not as easy
with our current platform.
So, exploring the tools that
you're using and asking,
is it worth going back to
the question we had before,
when did you know to change everything or
a specific thing, this can help.
As you start seeing more things change,
you might start saying, well,g,
there's a lot we need to change.
>> Erik Reinert: This one, however,
is probably the most important,
especially in exploration,
which is determine if the goal is
to improve the system design entirely or
innovate.
Or make small changes
when needed iteration.
You might find yourself in a scenario
where you start exploring,
you start looking at the system and
then you go.
We could also just make a very small
change here and probably work off of that
for the next six months and
then readdress this six months later.
That's fine, honestly, that's fine.
You might be like, why say that?
But the reality of it is,
is your job is just to serve
the company the best you can.
And innovation sometimes does impact the
ability to keep moving and keep growing.
And I mean, more often than not, I'm sure
we've all dealt with this where we wanted
to change a lot, but then realized that it
was gonna be a ton of work, a ton of time.
And it could have potentially add six
months to a scope of a project that
probably do in, like, a month, depending
on whatever you're trying to achieve.
So, be honest with yourself.
During this exploration time,
after setting your requirements,
ask yourself,
do we really need to innovate here, or
do we just need to make some
small changes in certain places?
After you've done your requirements,
after you've done your exploration,
this is where technical documents come in,
right?
So, start writing documents down and
start getting comfortable with writing
documentation and understanding how
to put your thoughts, your ideas and
everything you're trying to do on paper,
right?
Whether it be, I've written technical
documentation around stuff we've
explored and never used, right?
But a big value for that is, is the next
time that somebody else comes to
the table and asks, well, what about this?
We could say, well, here's the doc
on last time we explored this.
And a good example to that,
is right now, we are working at
making a centralized observability
system for testing it at Hippo.
Basically, we have 40 integration
test repositories and they
all use JUnit behind the hood to produce
report artifacts and stuff like that.
But we don't have a way to satisfy
what our engineering managers now
want which is understanding how
often are those failing, right?
How often are they flaky?
What are flaky?
Where are they failing?
All these kinda things, because
the errors are literally in console logs.
[LAUGH] That's the only way
you can get to the errors.
There's no report that you
could just easily look at.
And so, we discussed it, and I was like,
well, we need a portal of some sort.
We need some kind of UI or something, and
they're like, yeah, we looked into it, but
the cost was too much.
And I was like, I didn't though.
So I'm gonna try looking into it.
And sure enough, I went back,
I looked at a few of the open source and
even proprietary examples.
And one of the examples that was
proprietary had moved to an open
source model.
And we didn't check it, we were just like,
well, the article's right there, whatever.
But because it was there and I was able
to look at it and read what they said and
then go back and say, okay,
now I can go and say, well, hey,
this article is actually out of date.
There's the potential of us
being able to use this software.
And here's how we can, like, update
the article, here's how we can update and
try a new POC.
And that's what we're doing,
we're trying a new POC of a product
to hopefully help solve that problem.
So technical documents can help.
They can understand where you've been
as well a iterating over them and
helping to where you
want to go in the future.
And as I just mentioned,
provide detailed descriptions of
those explored systems, right?
Architectures, models, interfaces, data,
anything relevant to the project is
super helpful with making your case
helping understand how you're
trying to implement things.
But you really want to, you really wanna,
like, you are an explorer in a new world,
right?
This is your journal.
This is your way that you're going
to figure out how to showcase and
share where you've already been,
as well as where you wanna go.
>> Erik Reinert: And then a big part
of reason why technical documents
are important is that you can then take
all of that stuff and not have to say,
over and over and over and over and
over and over and over and
over again in meetings, right?
Instead of having to have long Slack
conversations about the same thing five or
seven times, you just give them a link.
Say, here's the link on this architecture
and why we decided to do it this way.
If you have any comments,
add it to the article, right?
Don't put this in a Slack discussion or
in a teams or whatever you use, but
keep the conversation together and let
everyone be a part of that conversation,
whether it be development teams or
stakeholders.
And again, this will facilitate
communication and collaboration,
you do not wanna work on
an architecture designed by yourself.
You might start it, you might create
the initial foundation for it.
But you do wanna facilitate that
communication and collaboration because
when you go to present it,
you'll have more people behind you, right?
You'll have more backing and
it'll become easier.
Going back to the EKS
versus ECS conversation.
When we tried presenting EKS for the first
time, it was just the dev team that had
the backing, that was the DevOps
team that had the backing.
But we learned from that and we decided,
okay, well, let's figure out a way
of piloting a certain part of
the company to try this product,
to try this approach, and then six
months later, we had great results.
And this team literally went in front of
the entire engineering staff and said,
we've had zero problems with this
infrastructure for the past six months.
That is irrefutable, you can't say that
it doesn't work because at that point,
we've already tested it with people.
We've already facilitated a lot of that
communication and collaboration to where
we solved a lot of those problems because
we worked very closely with those teams.
>> Erik Reinert: Okay, so
again, that's research.
Really, that's all about research, right?
When you're ready,
you can start implementing
the systems design of your choice.
And these are really steps to that, right?
First off,
choosing the appropriate design, right?
Defining the architecture,
developing the architecture, testing it,
deploying it, and maintaining it.
All of these are very,
very crucial, but also very,
very different steps of the process
that you really wanna go through.
I said before,
you don't wanna create something and
then just put it in production and
hope to God that that works.
You can, but
that might not help work out well for you.
[LAUGH] So
trying to do as much as you can before
you put it into the customer's
hands can be really important.
So, again,
some of this is a little repetitive, but
it really should help you understand
now why we talked about these things.
You wanna choose the design that best fits
the project requirements that you set,
the team expertise that you have,
the understanding of the budget.
The time constraints outlined in
the technical documents mentioned,
everything that you have built to
understand why you're building the thing
that you are should at this point help
you choose the appropriate design.
If you get to this point and you're okay,
I still don't know what to choose,
then you need to go back.
You need to go back to research, you need
to go back to exploration and you need to
go back to working on those technical
design documents because realistically,
more times than not,
it should just be a no-brainer.
At the point of where you finally
have collected everything,
you should have at least enough of the
puzzle together to where you could say,
well, here's the project requirements.
Here's the team expertise, here's
the budget, here's the time constraints.
This is the best solution, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: How much time I realize
every project is different, but
sort of like, proportionally speaking.
Do you feel like, you spend on sort of
the research requirements defining phase?
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Versus when you're in,
I don't know, I mean,
there was six things on that list.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] Implementation so
if we just take all of that, like,
>> Erik Reinert: It can be anything from
a week to a month.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah, I think,
I honestly don't think you wanna
go too far beyond a month,
at least without knowing something.
Otherwise, that's a lot of time wasted,
[LAUGH] like,
researching, you do wanna
find a good balance of where.
It's gonna get to a point as
well where your team lead, or
whoever your managers is gonna kinda
be like, hey, what's going on?
[LAUGH] Like, what's happening?
I don't know what you're doing, right?
And you don't wanna be,
you don't wanna be concerning people
about what you're trying to do.
Or, that means that you've kind of been
black boxing yourself, and not a lot of
people understand that might mean that
you need to have better communication.
You're not talking to the right teams.
And I dealt with this a lot, actually,
when I first started getting into DevOps
and platform engineering and
stuff like that.
I would work solely with myself,
and then like,
two to three weeks later,
nobody knew what I was working on.
But it wasn't because I wasn't working,
it was because I wasn't talking about it.
I wasn't sharing it with the other teams.
Nobody was seeing me ask questions,
nobody was seeing me do what I was,
especially supposed to be doing.
And so, that made it harder to
understand what the progress was.
More people,
more opinions to make it easier to
get to your point quicker basically.
>> Erik Reinert: So, we talked about
choosing the appropriate design,
now we wanna define the actual
architecture itself, right?
So, at this point you should have a good
understanding if you wanna have high
modularity, right?
You should be able to have a good
understanding of how things should work.
And so this is really where you
start putting pen to paper and
what I would kind of consider
is like the jigsaw stage.
Where you're gonna take each
one of these components,
you're just gonna throw them
down on a piece of paper and
you start moving things around until
they kind of start meshing together.
But they all need to be their own
individual ideas or components.
And then, this in my mind is
where workflows and charts and
designs and diagrams and things like that
can become massively valuable, right?
You throw all of your components onto
a piece of paper, or into a diagram.
And then you start
moving things around and
figuring out does this
interface work with this?
Does this work well with this,
is this architecture fit well for
what we're trying to do.
This can solve a lot when it comes
to trying to actually figure out
what you're trying to define.